In this video we're going to take a look
at how to protect a route in this case
my posts route from being access by unauthenticated user.
The mechanism probably the same thing with middleware
when we're working on backend stuff with laravel.
All right let's switch over to our editor and go to routes.js
where we define our entire front end routes.
And here let's add additional information on this
my posts route. We can do that by adding `meta`
then in there we can specify any values
now because I want to make this route only accessible
when the users have successfully sign in here
I'll say requires auth equal true don't forget
comma here.
So remember we can specify any values here.
So you could say is logged in authenticated
or something else that you prefer. Here
I'll stick with requires auth. All right
mow we can go to router index.js than here before
we export the router instance we can do a global
before guard by saying router before each
as noted in vue router official buide that the global before
guards are called in creation order whenever a navigation
is triggered.
Guards may be resolved asynchronously and the navigation is considered pending before all hooks have
been resolved.
So this method receives a callback which
contains three arguments `to` `from` and `next`
the `to` is a target router object being navigated to
`from` is a current route being navigated away from
and the `next` is called the function
that must be called to resolve the hook.
Here we can check whether a route record contains meta
dot requiresAuth by seeing if `to` matched dot some
then we will need to provide a callback function
r arrow r meter requires auth. This basically means
if a particular route record contains meta requires
auth we can then add an and operator followed by not window auth
signed in
so if someone not sign in and access any route that has
requires auth we will do something. In here we can
utilize the next callback to kind of redirect
or forward the request to other page.
For example if I want to forward a requests
to login page we can say next
name login
Since we haven't defined any route for login and
we don't need that because we'll stick with server
side login then we cannot use this standard way.
Instead we're going to redirect to the actual
laravel login page by using vanilla javascript like
so window location equals window auth url
don't forget to add
return to ignore the next execution
outside the if statement. So here outside the if statement
we can call next like
so. That means move on to the next hook.
So make sure to always call this next callback.
Now since we call this window auth
url so let's go to spa blade php
scroll all the way down
and here
let's add url and we'll set it to route login. Let's save all changes
reload the page. Here I can still access
it because I currently logged in.
Now let me log out from here.
Now let visit
my posts. Something went wrong.
Let me go to my editor then go to web.php
OK here I need to move this before this route.
Save
Great now I'll be taken to log in page.